# Assignment 1: Why?

Initially, enrolling in Computer Science was one of the last things on my list. If someone asked me during my elementary to junior high school life about my aspirations, it would be to become a doctor or an astronaut. I was really into the Science field, mainly Astronomy, Biology and little bit of Chemistry. So much so that I vividly remember studying the Kidneys and it's functions in great details to get an additional grade for my Science Project.

Technically, HTML was the first programming language that I encountered, which was during 8th Grade. I was not an "artistic" individual and thus HATED it with every fiber of my being as I didn't like the thought of wasting so much time just to make pixels on a screen look beautiful together. I remember having to design the a website a specific way where I just can't get to bring a box element into the perfect place, and how to make text display the way I intended. I thought that that was all what programming was about so I was not interested whatsoever. 

However, we can say that I found my "first love" when I was in 9th Grade, around 12 years old. That was the first time that I encountered an actual "Programming Language" (not markup language) which was C Programming and I can say that at that moment, I genuinely fell in Love with it. Something about the frustration of debugging and typing only to feel that sense of euphoria the moment it actually works just allured me further into it. 

Initially, during my first year, I learned the basics of text printing and variable types. I remember working on some simple but fun text based programs where I got to understand when to use loops and what loops to use. Like HTML, there are times when I can't get the program to work exactly how I wanted it to. But being able to actually find a way to make it work through some clever ways felt a lot more rewarding than just the brute force of changing values for HTML.

But the time that I really enjoyed programming more was 10th Grade when I first encountered Arduino. I still remember the words "Pulse Width Modulation" like it was engraved into my brain as it was what we used to make Christmas-Light like contraptions. I also remember making some Temperature Measurement project with my classmates where we went around the school trying to measure how hot it is. Typing letters and numbers in a computer to make something in real life move or function just added to the list of reasons why I loved Programming.

After Junior Highschool, I decided to genuinely pursue that path but I had to leave the school where I graduated JHS from since they only offered STEM, and I was thinking that I really have to specialize and thus, needed to find a school offering an ICT track. Senior High was also the time that I was first intrigued with Game Development. Minecraft, a childhood game of mine, gave me the idea to learn Java Programming more. 

I remember looking around Udemy for free Java Courses and found a free course from Cave of Programming (Which I admit that I owe a lot to). The more I learned Java, the more I realized just how amazing programming can really be, and how it worked fundamentally. Because of this, I was intrigued to learn other programming languages and how they work similarly or differently to one another. It made me see the world in a whole different view, one where systems and programs no longer looked like a black box.

Now, as I was learning more about the fundamentals of programming, it coincidentally was also the time when Generative AI Models such as ChatGPT gained popularity. This new technology, able to mimic a fraction (getting more and more) of human intelligence, really fascinated me. A system that has it's own autonomy and way of working without explicit, function by function instructions. This made me think that Artificial Intelligence will be that next milestone that changes the world drastically, the way the invention and slow integration of the internet did to to our culture and way of living.

ChatGPT was a big aid to me when I made my first actual project for a thesis in 12th Grade which was a bulletin board system. I had the idea of what to do but because I used PHP, a relatively foreign Programming Language for me, I needed some assistance with Debugging and Formatting. GPT was a CHAMP at doing this, I had the Idea and GPT had the knowledge, GPT was able to help me all throughout the process in addition to my Adviser and teammates.

Conversely, I also saw how destructive Generative AI can be with the explosion of AI Generated Content, from AI Images, Deepfakes, "Brain Rot" YouTube Shorts and so much more. More concerningly, I noticed how LLMs are being used in a dangerous manner by using them as "AI Companions" which I found alarming, specially since I believed that it would cause a big problem when it comes to relationship dynamics between humans and AIs later on.

Actually experiencing what GPT can do first hand gave me the urgency to genuinely study Artificial Intelligence, which is a large reason of **WHY** I chose to be in Computer Science. I saw myself in the perfect situation, as the technology was developed enough that the important fundamentals and core elements have already been discovered, yet young enough that these core elements are still being experimented on. Being in this course will (hopefully) give me the tools and foundation to be able to genuinely explore this familiar yet uncharted field.

It amazes me just how much potential Artificial Intelligence has, a field in which I believe that even small steps can bring major breakthroughs to our life. It's a little eerie how all of those Science Fiction stories are starting to sound more and more realistic every day. From Android Companions, War Machines to Artificial Superintelligence. 

Being able to (hopefully) be a part of such a fascinating field brings me great joy and pride, not just for myself but for the entire human race as a whole. Sooner or later, life will no longer be the same as today, hopefully for the better, and I will be glad to be able to take part in that transformation.
